Prime Rib Roast

The Prime Rib Roast is a classic and tender cut of beef taken from the rib primal cut.  Learn how to make the perfect prime rib roast to serve your family and friends.  Check out What’s Cooking America’s award-winning Classic Prime Rib Roast recipe and photo tutorial to help you make the Perfect Prime Rib Roast.

Time: 2 hours

Yield: 6 to 8 servings



Ingredients:
1 Prime Rib Roast (standing rib), approximately 8 pounds
1/2 cup good-quality balsamic vinegar
1 cup (packed) Italian parsley leaves
8 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 teaspoon salt 
Freshly ground pepper to taste
Salt to taste
1 cup water
3 drops Worcestershire sauce

Preparation:

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Let roast stand at room temperature for 1 hour.

In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, boil balsamic vinegar until it reduces to 1/4 cup, approximately 3 minutes.  Remove from heat and set aside.

Finely mince the parsley.  Mix together with the minced garlic, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and a generous amount of pepper.  Using the tip of a sharp knife, bore 7 to 10 narrow holes, each about 1 1/2" deep, in the rib roast.  Fill the holes with the parsley-garlic mixture.  Spread any remaining mixture over the surface of the roast.  Sprinkle all sides of the meat with salt and pepper.

Place the roast, ribs down in a roasting pan.  Roast for 15 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F. and continue to roast an additional 2 to 2 1/2 hours or until the internal temperature reaches desired temperature on a meat thermometer (see below).

Rare - 120 degrees F. 
Medium Rare - 125 degrees F.
Medium - 130 degrees F.

Remove from oven and transfer onto a cutting board; let stand 15 minutes before carving (the internal temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees after it is removed from the oven).

Pour off all but 2 teaspoons fat in the roasting pan.  The pan juices should be few but concentrated and caramelized.  Place the roasting pan over two (2) burners on high heat.  Add the water, scraping up all the browned bits on the bottom of the pan and stirring until they are incorporated.  Boil the liquid until it reduces to 3/4 cup, approximately 3 to 4 minutes.

Stir in enough of the balsamic glaze to create a tart edge in the flavor of the juices, approximately 1 to 2 tablespoons.  (Reserve any extra glaze for another use.) Add the Worcestershire to the sauce; remove from heat and keep warm.

After slicing the roast, add any accumulated meat juices to the balsamic sauce.  Serve the meat slices on warmed plates with balsamic sauce on the side.